Docs/Gateway: NestJS integration (#6545)
graphql-hive/console: packages/web/docs/src/content/gateway/deployment/node-frameworks/nestjs.mdx

---
description:
  Nest (Nest JS) is a progressive Node.js framework for building efficient, reliable and scalable

>   server-side applications.

Reviewer: This is a description of Nest, not our Hive GW driver _for_ Nest. I'd rephrase it to say something like: "Hive Gateway driver for Nest, a progressive Node.js [...]"

---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# Integration with NestJS

[Nest (Nest JS)](https://nestjs.com) is a progressive Node.js framework for building efficient,
reliable and scalable server-side applications.

> Hive Gateway provides its own Nest GraphQL Driver that support building
> [GraphQL Federation](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/hive/federation) gateways including
> [subscription support](/docs/gateway/subscriptions) that do not exist in the default Nest Federation
> drivers.

Reviewer: Some grammar fixes and removed the last part of the sentence, there's no need to state that subscriptions dont exist in Nest's Federation driver.

```suggestion
Hive Gateway provides its own Nest GraphQL Driver that supports building
[GraphQL Federation](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/hive/federation) gateways including
[subscriptions support](/docs/gateway/subscriptions).
```

Author: Isn't it a good selling point for Hive Gateway driver compared to default options?

Reviewer: I think it's enough to say that we support subscriptions, no need to connect ourselves to Nest. Also, this might change in the future and not saying anything about Nest keeps the docs up-to-date on its own.

Author: In Nest docs, it says gateway doesn't support subscriptions which might be misleading on our end like we also do not support. My point is to emphasize that we support unlike the default existing options for the Federation Gateway with Nest.

<Callout>
  For the setup of a new Nest project, please make sure to read the [Nest GraphQL
  documentation](https://docs.nestjs.com/graphql/quick-start).
</Callout>

## Install

```sh npm2yarn
npm i @nestjs/graphql @graphql-hive/nestjs graphql
```

## Create Application Module

```typescript
import { HiveGatewayDriver, HiveGatewayDriverConfig } from '@graphql-hive/nestjs'
import { Module } from '@nestjs/common'
import { GraphQLModule } from '@nestjs/graphql'

@Module({
  imports: [
    GraphQLModule.forRoot<HiveGatewayDriverConfig>({
      driver: HiveGatewayDriver,
      // All configuration for Hive Gateway comes here;
      supergraph: './supergraph.graphql',
      // Install subscription handlers to the server
      installSubscriptionHandlers: true,
      subscriptions: {
        // Enable WebSocket subscriptions
        'graphql-ws': true
      }
    })
  ]
})
export class AppModule {}
```

<Callout>
  Learn more about subscriptions in Hive Gateway [here](/docs/gateway/subscriptions).
</Callout>

## Further development

Hive Gateway offers just a gateway driver; meaning, everything else works as

> [showcased in NestJS federation documentation](https://docs.nestjs.com/graphql/federation).

Reviewer: You use NestJS and Nest interchangeably, let's decide to use one. Nest alights with how the Nest team [calls it](https://docs.nestjs.com/).

```suggestion
[showcased in Nest federation documentation](https://docs.nestjs.com/graphql/federation).
```

---
description:
  Nest (Nest JS) is a progressive Node.js framework for building efficient, reliable and scalable
  server-side applications.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# Integration with NestJS

[Nest (Nest JS)](https://nestjs.com) is a progressive Node.js framework for building efficient,
reliable and scalable server-side applications.

Hive Gateway provides its own Nest GraphQL Driver that support building
[GraphQL Federation](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/hive/federation) gateways including subscription
support.

By default, Nest Federation drivers do not have Subscription support by any means. But Hive Gateway
driver allows you to benefit [subscriptions](/docs/gateway/subscriptions) within a Federation
gateway.

> 

Author: I rephrased the paragraph. What do you think?

<Callout>
  For the setup of a new Nest project, please make sure to read the [Nest GraphQL
  documentation](https://docs.nestjs.com/graphql/quick-start).
</Callout>

> ## Standalone

Author: ```suggestion
## Standalone
```

> ## Standalone

Author: I think it is bad copy/paste 😅 Removed!
